Hi everyone, my name is Barret Schloerke and I'm on the Shiny team at Posit.
Shiny team just came out with a new release of Shiny, version 1.2.
In this release, we've integrated Narwhals, which allows us to wrap your data frame and
allow us to do computations on it without knowing specific knowledge of your data frame.
This is great because Narwhals is improving by the hour, and it's really neat to see
their progress so quickly.
Today, I'm going to show you a simple app, how we show some PyArrow data, and I'm going
to show you all the different types that I can currently display.
So let's check out this PyArrow application.
In a pretty format, it has 11 lines of code, but really, the magic all happens in these
last three lines where we render a data frame.
Let's run this app.
Our data is coming from the great tables package with the SMP 500, and we're using PyArrow
table to import that pandas data set.
Given this PyArrow data, we can just use it like normal, and it shows up in our app.
That's pretty awesome.
There's like roughly three, four lines of code involved for the user, and it works seamlessly.
If we check out an app where we're looking at both pandas, polars, which was added in
Shiny 0.9, but PyArrow and Narwhals support was added now in 1.2.
So let's run this app.
It's a little bit longer because there's more options, but the same concept still exists.
So the SMP 500 given pandas data set as your original data, we have polars, we have PyArrow,
and if you happen to just return Narwhals itself, you can do that as well.
There are new methods being displayed for your render data frame, and please check them
out.
To learn more about this, check out PyShiny website component gallery, which will be linked
down below.
Also, check out Narwhals so that you can see the latest support and what they have for
their eager data frames.
Thank you.